>> Speaker 1: Just a question
about defining components,
when to use functional components
versus EXS class components.
>> Brian Holt: One Airbnb's linting
rules are gonna yell at you so
that's a pretty good indication.
But the principal underneath
that is if you have no state,
if you have no life cycles or
anything like that,
it's a good idea to use
functional components.
The reason why is that they're more
simple and I am a big believer in the,
what is it, the,
>> Brian Holt: The rule of
the least powerful abstraction, right?
So you want something that's the least
powerful possible that fulfills what
you're doing and that kind of
reduces your area for bugs right?
So there's not really a whole lot that
can go long with the function for
example, right?
As soon as you start introduces classes
as CF more to like mentally parse
to get through it and
then you have more power, right?
You can have life cycle methods,
you can have state,
you can have all these different things,
whereas a function is more simple,
it's just it's easier to not have bugs.
So that's my general principle of
no lifecycle methods and no state,
then use a stateless functional component,
otherwise use and EXS class.
>> Speaker 1: Have you
ever had to use context?
>> Brian Holt: I have.
In fact in version two of this,
we do talk about how to use context
just because it was necessary with
previous versions of React router.
So, I showed you how to use props,
and I showed you how to use state.
But there is a lurking
third type of way to store
your state which is called context.
So instead of saying this
dot props dot whatever,
you are going to say this dot
context dot something, right?
The difference between context and
props is that you're app has one context,
so as soon
as I said context in one component it's
available everywhere in your entire app.
Right?
It doesn't sound scary to you,
that's because it's scary.
That's a bad idea, right?
In fact, inside of the React
document it says this is
an experimental API, and you should
use caution when building upon this.
It's been around for
a year-and-a-half, right?
So it's not super experimental anymore and
there are people in the react community,
that are big advocates for
using context in places.
I have literally never set
anything in context before.
Like in all of my react
apps that I've ever built,
I have never had to write to context.
The part where context is
actually useful is for
things like, React-router-dom, right?
So when it instantiates itself,
like here on app.jsx.
What this component is going to do here,
it's actually gonna set
the router on context, right?
And then when I go down into like,
ShowCard.
And I have a link right here, right?
A link, this link is actually reads
the router from contacts, right.
So it's a great way for
libraries to be able to connect out with
the components that they render out.
So for
that particular use case I'm all for it.
But if you're writing a library that
uses this higher order components,
makes a ton of sense.
If you're writing stuff yourself,
it's a really bad idea.
If you're trying to set
something on context,
you really need to ask two
questions of what am I doing and
why is this a good idea?
And can I do this differently?
Can I achieve this with state?
Can I achieve this with props?
Can I avoid setting context?
When you start using context in
a lot of places, this is where you
need to start saying to yourself, I
probably need something like Redux, right?
So, once you get to that point, you either
go down the round of using context or
you go down the route of using Redux.
Usually, you don't do both.
So, that's my spiel on context is,
I don't use it.
Once I get to the point where
I want to use it, I use Redux.
But there are people
that disagree with me.
>> Speaker 3: More interested in Fiber,
but as you mentioned,
you're not going to cover it and
it's suppose to keep the API the same so
nothing in this workshop will change.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
Nothing in this workshop will change
except you won't be
able to use perf tools.
And the one thing that will change with
Fiber that I don't really care about,
but I will show you nonetheless.
So you'll be able to have
multiple top level returns.
>> Brian Holt: This does not work today.
This will work with Fiber.
>> Brian Holt: But
I think that that's really it.
>> Brian Holt: They're gonna do
some other interesting things,
something that they're talking about
doing, which will not ship with 16.
So if I have something like,
let's see, like search.
Well let's do the details.
So here I have componentDidMount and
I'm doing axios here.
And I'm using a promise here.
Eventually, when they want to get
to the point where all of these
life cycle methods are async methods,
so that you can do async await.
So I can do async componentDidMount,
so instead of doing, I can say,
const response = await.
Await.axios.get and
then rather than doing all this
dot hen business down here
it will do async away.
If that doesn't look familiar with
you then I invite you to go check
out what async away does but
that's kind of one of their goals and
they're getting there but
that's down the road.
>> Speaker 4: Follow up would
be can you do that now?
With a single wait and, like,
a bad Poly field with the ES-2017.
>> Brian Holt: Not with
the life cycle methods.
No, because it has to be invoked
like a new sync-method, right.
And that doesn't work within
the stock architecture.
>> Speaker 4: Thanks.
>> Brian Holt: Yep.